appendix 3 HSC a procedural right up
Mexico trip to house select committee
staffers Edwin Juan Lopez and Harold
leap traveled to Mexico City on August
7th 1978 the staff members were met by
David T Patton a state department
official at the Mexican Airport at 10:15
p.m. mr. Patton then checked the
staffers into room 175 for at the Maria
Isabel hotel mr. Patton informed the
staff members that Larry Stern field CIA
chief of station in Mexico City wished
to see us at 8:30 a.m. the following
morning on Tuesday August 8 1978
committee staffers met with Larry Stern
field he informed the staffers that the
two individuals the committee wished to
interview Daniel Flores aka Luis
Aparicio and redacted were now available
at 9:30 a.m. August 8th 1978 committee
staff members interviewed Danny Flores
the interview ended at approximately
10:15 a.m. committee staff members
returned to mr. stern fields office mr.
stern field stated that it appeared that
the government of Mexico had only been
able to locate two witnesses for the
committee oscar Contreras Lartigue and
no aw polymerase footnote Elena claimed
that when she told no aw Palomares about
meeting Lee Harvey Oswald he advised her
to send an anonymous letter to Texas
explaining her account the committee
wished to question mr. polymerase about
Elena's credibility end footnote stern
field asked the committee members to
whom they wished to speak the committee
staff members explained that they would
like to interview lai chant one footnote
y chant one is manuel k vo see section 6
C for details and significance end
footnote like cookie one footnote like
cookie one is June Cobb sharp see
section 4c for details and footnote
redacted redacted and leering 3 footnote
leering 3 was a Cuban citizen redacted
who is a source for the CIA he had
reported that Sylvia Duran had told him
that she had had an affair with Lee
Harvey Oswald the committee wished to
question him about Sylvia Duran end
footnote mr. stern field then stated
that it appeared that the House Select
Committee on assassinations had already
asked the Mexicans to locate the
individuals listed above mr. stern field
stated that the HSC A's interview with
redacted was considered highly sensitive
he explained that three rooms at a
nearby hotel would be used in one room
redacted would sit committee staff
members would sit in a second room and
two CIA personnel officers would ensure
that the equipment worked properly in a
third room mr. stern field then phoned
mr. Niles Gooding who had been sent to
the Mexico City Station from
headquarters to arrange the procedures
for the interviews mr. Gooding explained
that in 1977 Stansfield Turner had
created a new position at headquarters
to ensure that important sensitive
meetings were within the guidelines
previously arranged mr. Gooding stated
that the Central Intelligence Agency had
been under greater congressional
scrutiny the past two years
therefore director Turner in order to
demonstrate the agency's good faith had
engaged a retired Army officer to act as
liaison at sensitive interviews by
congressional representatives mr.
Gooding then explained that the HSC a
staff would be escorted by two CIA
personnel to the interview with redacted
at 10:55 a.m. August 8th 1978 committee
staff members interviewed redacted at
12:30 p.m. committee staff members
telephoned captain Fernandez Ventura
Gutierrez his secretary explained that
mr. Ventura
was not in the office but that she would
have him call us when he returned at
6:30 p.m. since mr. Ventura had not yet
returned
first call they again called his office
his secretary apologized for mr. Ventura
and explained that he had not yet
returned to the office and she assured
us that mr. Ventura would telephone upon
his return at 9:15 p.m. dr. hey-zeus
Llanes the assistant to the official
mayor telephoned the staff members
explaining that mr. Ventura was very
busy on an important assignment and
asked us to visit the police station
known as the Pro Curia general at 11:00
a.m. the following morning at 10:15 a.m.
August 9th 1978 committee staff members
met with State Department official
Richard Howard to alert him that the
committee would request the Mexican
officials to make Sylvia Duran available
in Washington for an HSC a hearing mr.
Howard explained that once we had
permission from the Mexican government
the State Department would ensure that
she was in Washington when necessary at
11:00 a.m. August 9th
1978 committee staff members met with
dr. hey-zeus Llanes and seprieono
Martinez Novoa
mr. Yan has told committee staff members
that seprieono Martinez Nova the Mexican
agent in charge would try to aid us in
all our interviews mr. Martinez then
briefed the committee staff members on
their up-to-date progress
Oscar Contreras Lartigue had been
located and pre interviewed by mr.
Martinez in Tampico Mexico the committee
would fly to Tampico on Friday August
11th 1978 at 7:35 a.m. to interview him
no way wpm Juarez had been located and
could be interviewed during the
afternoon of Thursday August 10th 1978
at his office Sarada
de la presa for his phone number 5 9 5 o
maid available to the committee June
cobb sharp received a tourist permit
number 7 2 7 8 1 on June 27th 1947 she
entered Mexico through Nuevo Laredo
Texas she requested but was denied
permission by the Mexican government to
represent the magazine modern Mexico
On June 21st 1948 she received a
courtesy permit number two five five
five six
she disappeared in 1954 and never
returned to Mexico the committee
staffers did not tell the Mexicans that
the House Select Committee on
assassinations had evidence from a
review of June Cobbs 201 file that she
was in Mexico in the 60s uniess oh do
Infante a Costa Rican received a
three-month tourist permit from the
Mexican government on February 9th 1964
she remained in Mexico illegally
residing at NASA 45 a until 1972 she
applied to write for the Excelsior
magazine on many different occasions but
was rejected every time in 1972 miss o
d married a communist painter Rudolfo
Sanabria Gonzalez and moved to RIA neyba
sixteen apartment 40 on May 24th 1972
miss OTO was found dead in her bathtub
the official presiding at her autopsy
concluded that Miss odio had poisoned
herself emilio Caballito Fontana's was
in Caracas Venezuela on vacation and
scheduled to return to Mexico in early
September his address is constituent s
207 his phone number is 555 redacted
personnel record in Mexico could not be
located when the Mexican officials
inquired about her at the Cuban embassy
in mexico city prior to the committee's
trip no one at the office remembered
that she had worked there committee
staff members were told that redacted
was probably dead no basis was given for
the Mexican government's conclusion
redacted learing 3 was born in Cuba on
November 3rd 1927 he entered Mexico July
1st 1965 and taught graphics and art at
UN a.m. until January 1st 1968 when he
disappeared the Mexican officials
assumed that he returned to Cuba General
hey-zeus jose clark flores died in the
early night
1870s footnote general hey-zeus jose
clark flores escorted reuben duran to
russia in 1962 and was considered by
many to be Duran's protector also elena
claimed that flores was at the party
that she stated Lee Harvey Oswald was in
attendance the committee wished to ask
mr. Clark Flores about all the above in
footnote Ernesto lay felled Miller
academic coordinator at the school of
interior design had not yet been located
footnote Ernesto Layfield Miller is a
Mexican citizen that resembled si Bo as
Q's description of the man that
allegedly visited the Cuban consulate
all the Duran's recognized Miller
Horatio and Sylvia said that Miller was
a close friend and borrowed Horatio scar
often in footnote redacted lives at
redacted apartment redacted Mexico City
his phone number is redacted the
landlady at his apartment explained to
the Mexican officials that redacted had
left town hurriedly on Monday August 7th
1978 mr. Martinez wishing to know when
he returned had placed a piece of scotch
tape on the bottom right edge of his
door mr. Martinez explained that he
checked it every four hours and would
notify us if redacted returned before we
left
Manuel que vio like can't one did not
live at komak 8775 as the committee had
stated the landlady for the past 25
years at the apartments told mr.
Martinez that Manuel Calvillo
had never resided there committee staff
members explained that Calvillo went by
a pen name which would be forwarded to
the Mexican officials the following
morning when committee staff members
inquired whether miss Sylvia tirado
bazan could testify at an H s CA hearing
the Mexican officials stated that they
would have an answer for the staffers by
Friday morning the Mexican officials
explained that they would have to speak
to her to ensure that she was willing to
travel to Washington
on Thursday August 10th 1978 at 11:00
a.m. the committee staff members met
with dr. hey-zeus llanes agent cipriano
Martinez Novoa
captain Florentino Ventura Gutierrez and
attorney general licenciado Manuel
Calvillo spend name was given to the
Mexicans who stated that they would
check it with the landlady at his
alleged apartment building committee
staffers returned to their hotel room
with agent cipriano Martinez Novoa after
the meeting agent Martinez attempted
without success to telephone Oscar
Contreras Lartigue to inform him of our
visit at 3:30 p.m. agent Martinez
finally reached mr. Contreras child who
informed him that mr. Contreras was not
in Tampico he had traveled to Mexico
City for a party de republicano
institutional convention when agent
Martinez asked the child if he knew
where his father was staying in Mexico
City he responded that he did not agent
Martinez explained to the child that he
would call at a later time to speak to
his mother agent Martinez telephoned no
aw polymerase at 4 p.m. and arranged an
interview for 6:30 p.m. that evening mr.
Martinez asked committee staff members
to meet him at his office at the
procurer Duryea general at 6 p.m. at 6
p.m. August 10th 1978 committee staff
members met agent cipriano Martinez at
the procurer Duryea general Martinez
then drove the HS CA representatives to
mr. Pelham Juarez office at 6:30 p.m.
committee staff members interviewed no
aw polymerase following the interview
agent Martinez returned to the Maria
Isabel hotel with committee staff
members he attempted to reach mrs.
Contreras telephonically at Tampico
twice without success at 9:45 p.m.
he finally contacted her mrs. Contreras
told agent Martinez that mr. scar
Contreras had told her that he would try
to get a room at either the hotel Regis
or Hotel San Francisco mrs. Contreras
explained that since there were a few
conventions scheduled in Mexico City
that weekend
she could not assure that he would be an
either hotel
mrs. Contreras told agent Martinez that
she would notify him if her husband
should call mr. Martinez called both
hotels and inquired whether Oscar
Contreras Lartigue was registered he was
not registered and either they were
completely booked up
mr. Martinez attempted to reach by
telephone Sylvia tirado Baez on at their
home to ask her whether she would be
willing to travel to Washington to
testify at an HSC a hearing and to ask
if she knew where mr. Ernesto Layfield
Miller could be located she was not at
home however agent Martinez explained
that he would attempt to locate Oscar
Contreras Lartigue at the hotel where
the partido republicano institution al
institutional Republican Party was
holding its convention early the
following morning after which he would
meet the staff members at 9:30 a.m. at
their hotel room at 9:45 a.m. August
11th 1978 agent Martinez met committee
staffers at their hotel room and
explained that he was unable to locate
mr. Contreras Lartigue at the convention
mr. Martinez then left to check the
whereabouts of mr. Alberto and Silvia
tirado bazan at 12:30 p.m. August 11th
1978 agent Martinez returned to the
committee staff members hotel room he
telephoned mrs. Contreras in Tampico who
stated that her husband had not
telephoned her since she had last spoken
to agent Martinez at 1:50 p.m. another
agent han oreo gunden telephoned agent
Martinez at the committee staffers hotel
room to inform him that redacted must be
back in town because the scotch tape
placed at the base of his entranceway
door was no longer in place at 1:55 p.m.
agent Martinez telephoned redacted
during the phone conversation redacted
denied that he had worked at the cuban
embassy in the 60s stated that he knew
nothing about the assassination and
declined to the committee staff members
request to interview him at 2:00 p.m.
August 11th the 19th
seventy-eight agent Martinez telephoned
Silvia Duran agent Martinez then gave
the telephone to committee staffer Lopez
mr. Lopez asked mr. otto whether she
would be willing to testify sometime in
September at a committee hearing in
Washington she answered affirmatively
she stated that September 13th 14th and
15th would not be good days because the
Mexican Revolution celebration would be
taking place and she was a planner and
participant when mr. Lopez asked mr.
Otto if she knew mr. Ernesto lay felled
Miller's phone number she stated that
she did not but she stated that if we
telephoned her husband Horacio at either
five one six zero three nine eight or
five one five eight 621 he would be able
to help us at 2:15 p.m. committee
staffer Lopez telephoned Horacio Duran
who gave him
Ernesto they filled Miller's office
phone number five four eight four eight
thirty nine at 2:20 p.m. Lopez
telephoned mr. Miller and arranged a
meeting for 9:00 p.m. that evening at
2:30 p.m. agent Martinez telephoned
captain Ventura to report on his
progress pertaining to his work with the
HS CA when Martinez told Ventura that he
had located redacted Ventura asked
Martinez if he was alone when agent
Martinez lied and stated that he was
alone
Ventura told him that he should under no
circumstances allow us to interview
redacted when agent Martinez completed
his phone call he said I don't
understand why nobody wants you to talk
to him at 9:00 p.m. August 11th 1978
committee staffers interviewed Ernesto
they filled Miller at 11:15 a.m. August
12 1978 committee staffer Lopez called
redacted at his home when Mr Lopez
identified himself redacted immediately
stated that he knew nothing he further
stated that he never worked for the
Cuban embassy when Lopez explained to
him that employees at the Cuban embassy
had stated that he had been employed
there redacted hung up redacted voice
quiver
throughout the short talk at 11:45 a.m.
Silvia tirado called Lopez and stated
that she thought all night about
traveling to Washington she said she had
seen a report in the newspapers in which
askew had stated that the man who
visited the Cuban consulate in 1963 was
not Lee Harvey Oswald she stated that
askew had only seen Oswald once while
she had seen Oswald at least three times
mister ran further stated that if she
testified in Washington and the
committee concluded that she was lying
she would be crucified when she returned
to Mexico Mr Lopez reassured her and
explained that when he returned to
Washington he would send her a long
letter explaining procedures at 12:05
p.m. agent Martinez met the committee
staff members at the airport
he stated that Contreras and caballo had
not been located the committee staffers
gave Martinez a list of questions to ask
Oscar Contreras Lartigue agent Martinez
stated that he would mail the results of
the interview to Lopez at the committee
offices in Washington the committee
never received any interview reports
from the Mexican government the
committee staff members left Mexico City
at 1:55 p.m. and arrived at Washington's
Dulles Airport at 10:35 p.m.